tomboy-ng Calculator
===========



Versions of tomboy-ng after V0.20 include an expression calculator. It has three basic modes, all activated by pressing Ctrl-E (or Cmd-E on the Mac)  -





* **Simple Calc Mode,** you type for example, 6+10= and press Ctrl-E, tomboy-ng will fill in '16' after the equals sign. This will work with any basic numerical calculations, (5*7)/(8.3+12)-0.724=**1.000**  In this mode, you can use  numerals, curved brackets, decimal points and the basic operators, + - / * and ^ (ie power).

* **Complex Calc Mode,** if you need to use, say trig functions, the Simple Calc won't find your full expression. So, type the expression, select it and, again, press Ctrl-E. Similar result.  In this mode you can use the above mentioned plus pi cos sin tan arctan abs sqr sqrt exp ln log frac int round and trunc. eg sin(0.5)^2 + cos(0.5)^2 =**1**

* **Column Mode,** will add up a column of numbers in the lines above it.  'A column', in this case means all the numbers that appear at either the beginning of the lines or end of the lines. If there are numbers at both beginning and end of  lines, the longer column takes precedence. If we have the same number of entries at either end, the  left or beginning column takes precedence.  The first line encounted that does not have a number at the appropriate end stops the column count. Remember a number on a line by itself can be considered to be at both the beginning and end of the line. You can stop a number being considered by 'hiding' it with an alpha char and, then remove that character  after doing the calc. Only numerals and the decimal point are allowed in this mode.



Home to Axedale 5.5

Axedale to Bendigo 19

Bendigo to home via O'Briens Road 23

round trip is **47.500**



5 some text 7

1 more text

3 blah 4

**9**



In the above example, the left column is used, it has three eligible numbers, the right column only has one, the '4', there is no number at the end of the "1 more text" line.



 some text 7

1 more text 4

3

**14**



In above example, the parser has chosen to work with the numbers at the end of the line because that list has more entries.  7+4+3=14 note that the '3' can be used by both a beginning and end column.





The expression parser converts to using floating point numbers where necessary and displays its output with 3 digits after the decimal point. The internal calculations are done at a much higher precision however.



Note in the examples above, I have manually bolded the answers for clarity, it does not happen automatically.










