tomboy-ng help
===========



Tomboy-ng is a rewrite of the much loved Tomboy Notes. It runs on Linux, Windows and MacOS. Is file compatible with Tomdroid and (?) GNote. Tomboy-ng notes support **Bold**, *Italic*, Strike-through, <highlight>Highlight</highlight> and Underline in  four sizes, <sub>small</sub>, normal, large and <highlight>huge</highlight>.



It can sync notes with other systems using Tomboy's File Sync model (but not yet Network  Sync  using Rainy or Graphal). There is a one to one sync capability to an Android phone running Tomdroid (but only from a Linux box).



Many users will want to have tomboy-ng start at logon time, it will put an Icon in the System Tray and you can  interact with it via that Icon. However, to ensure we support some difficult platforms, a small window or splash screen is also opened, it can be dismissed if you see the system tray icon (or on some Gnome 3 systems, you have added it to your dock as a favourite).  You can set that small splash screen to not open unless a bad note is detected at startup.



**Using tomboy-ng**
--------
You will interact with tomboy-ng using a menu on a System Tray Icon (only some systems) or from a menu that appears on all major forms of the application.  If you don't have a System Tray Icon (that's sad!) you add tomboy-ng to your Favourites so it appears on your dock, that way, you can always either start it or wake up its Search Form easily.



From the **search form**, you can -

* Access the main menu (New Note, Settings, recent notes etc).

* Search for terms in all your notes.  A search term like  <highlight>"John Smith" name</highlight>  will find all notes that use the word *name* anywhere and have  exactly that combination of *John Smith*.  It won't, for example find  *my name is Smith, John.*

* Organise your notes into Notebooks, tomboy-ng will allow each note to be in more than one Notebook but if you sync or share your notes with the original Tomboy, don't turn that feature on.

* Rename a notebook, but if you sync your notes, do run a full sync first !



Note that search results shown on the search form may not be automatically updated while the form remains open unless 'Auto Refresh' is ticked. That's to ensure that a set of results don't change while you deal with individual notes.  If a change is pending, the 'Refresh Button' becomes enabled and you can trigger an update by clicking that button.



**Generally tomboy-ng -**

* notes are automatically saved as you make changes.

* allows you to change a notes's title by directly editing the actual title in the note window.

* automatically makes backup copies when you delete a note, if you need to know a note is really gone, go to Settings->Backup.

* has facilities to make snapshots of your notes from time to time, please use it!

* can sync your notes to a common file store so they are accessible from multiple machines (Linux, Windows or Mac).

* does not share well. If you just put your notes on a shared drive (without using sync) be desperately careful that you don't have more than one tomboy-ng or Tomboy running at the same time. Bad things happen.



**Command Line Switches.**
--------


**-h or --help**

 Show help and exit.



**--delay-start**

Insert a few seconds at startup to ensure that tomboy-ng picks up your colour scheme.



**-l CCode  --lang=CCode**

Force Language, supported language codes as  es and nl. Let us know if you want tomboy-ng in another language.



**--version**

Print version and exit



**--no-splash**

 Don't show small status/splash window. Saves you from having to dismiss it at startup. Don't use unless you have checked you can see the small green system tray icon.



**--config-dir=PATH_to_DIR**

Create or use an alternative config. Mainly a testing feature but useful if you want to have two (or more) sets of independent (but not concurrent) notes for example.



**--open-note=PATH_to_NOTE**

Open  a  note in  single note mode. In this mode, a separate process runs, it does not have access to the normal notes location, nor sync but can read, display and write back to a stand alone note.  If  the  note name  does  not  exist, a new note is created. If the note name specifies a plain text file or a rtf file,  the contents of that file will be imported into a new note and that note will be named as specified on the command line but with an extension of ".note".  In this mode, the note remains in its existing location, it is not moved to the tomboy-ng notes location, it is not synced, nor searched by tomboy-ng in its normal mode. Note that the switch (-o or --open-note) is optional, "tomboy-ng some.note" will works as well.



**--save-exit**

Works only with the single note mode, will import (.note, .rtf, plain text) the file, convert to .note format (and note standard filename format) and save in the configured notes directory. Note that tomboy-ng will require a restart after this happens.





 **--debug-sync       --debug-index       ---debug-spell**

Show what is happening during either sync, index or spell. Useful for debugging. They will write detailed progress reports relating  to their section of the application to the console. However, Windows does not, for this purpose, have a  console.  But  it  can  be  told  to capture this log info to a file using another command line switch or by setting an env  variable that specifies a file name. Please ensure you have permission to write to the location specified. For example, from the start button, click run and type  -



    `tomboy-ng  --debug-log=c:\debug.txt  --debug-sync`



**Mac Things**
--------
Mac user require a slightly more complicated command line when using any of these command line switches. For example a Mac command line to generate a sync debug log would be -



    `open tomboy-ng.app --args "--debug-log=$HOME/tomboy-ng.log" "--debug-sync"`



    `And, because of the .app approach, absolute paths need be used for parameters, or, use $PWD relative to your current directory -`



open tomboy-ng/tomboy-ng.app --args "-o" "$PWD/doc/tomboy-ng.note"






